# MaliciousPEs

Malicious PE malware classification based on [Microsoft Malware Classification Challenge (BIG 2015)](https://www.kaggle.com/c/malware-classification).

## Description

In recent years, the malware industry has become a well organized market involving large amounts of money. Well funded, multi-player syndicates invest heavily in technologies and capabilities built to evade traditional protection, requiring anti-malware vendors to develop counter mechanisms for finding and deactivating them. In the meantime, they inflict real financial and emotional pain to users of computer systems.

One of the major challenges that anti-malware faces today is the vast amounts of data and files which need to be evaluated for potential malicious intent. For example, Microsoft's real-time detection anti-malware products are present on over 160M computers worldwide and inspect over 700M computers monthly. This generates tens of millions of daily data points to be analyzed as potential malware. One of the main reasons for these high volumes of different files is the fact that, in order to evade detection, malware authors introduce polymorphism to the malicious components. This means that malicious files belonging to the same malware "family", with the same forms of malicious behavior, are constantly modified and/or obfuscated using various tactics, such that they look like many different files.

In order to be effective in analyzing and classifying such large amounts of files, we need to be able to group them into groups and identify their respective families. In addition, such grouping criteria may be applied to new files encountered on computers in order to detect them as malicious and of a certain family.

For this challenge, Microsoft is providing the data science community with an unprecedented malware dataset and encouraging open-source progress on effective techniques for grouping variants of malware files into their respective families.

## Dataset

|Name|# Samples|Type|
|:-:|:-:|:-:|
|Ramnit|1541|Worm|
|Lollipop|2478|Adware|
|Kelihos_ver3|2942|Backdoor|
|Vundo|475|Trojan|
|Simda|42|Backdoor|
|Tracur|751|Trojan Downloader|
|Kelihos_ver1|398|Backdoor|
|Obfuscator.ACY|1228|Obfuscated malware|
|Gatak|1013|Backdoor|

Each sample has two files of different forms: machine code and disassembly script generated by *IDA Pro*.

```
10001100 C4 01 74 AC D9 EE D9 C0 DD EA DF E0 F6 C4 44 7A
10001110 0A DD D9 DD 17 DD 1E 8B E5 5D C3 DD D8 E8 74 26
10001120 00 00 DC 0D 78 65 00 10 DC 34 24 E8 60 26 00 00
10001130 DD 44 24 08 D8 C9 DD 1F DC 4C 24 10 DD 1E 8B E5
10001140 5D C3 CC CC CC CC CC CC CC CC CC CC CC CC CC CC
```

```
.text:10001106 D9 C0        fld     st
.text:10001108 DD EA        fucomp  st(2)
.text:1000110A DF E0        fnstsw  ax
.text:1000110C F6 C4 44     test    ah, 44h
.text:1000110F 7A 0A        jp      short loc_1000111B
.text:10001111 DD D9        fstp    st(1)
.text:10001113 DD 17        fst     qword ptr [edi]
```

## Precomputed Features

|Item|Description|
|:-:|:-:|
|File Size|The sizes of disassembly and machine code files, and their ratios.|
|API 4-gram| API sequences.|
|Opcode 4-gram|Opcode sequences.|
|Import Library|Import libraries in the PE Import Table.|
|PE Section Size|The virtual sizes and raw sizes of PE sections, and their ratios.|
|PE Section Permission|The total sizes of readable data, writable data and executable code.|
|Content Complexity|The original sizes, compressed sizes and compression ratios of disassembly and machine code files.|

## Models

These models have been tested in the project:

- *Support Vector*
- *K-Nearest Neighbors*
- *Random Forest*

## Getting Started

### Running Environment

* Python - 3.9.0

### Requirements

* pandas
* scipy
* tqdm
* scikit-learn==0.24.2
* dask==2021.12
* distributed==2021.12
* auto-sklearn==0.15.0

### Running Commands

* `pip install -r requirements.txt`
* `python classifier.py`
